"Curiosity." 
By Alex Jarvis
For "Machine of Death 2" Submission


"Oh, of course not." 

That's the standard answer, anyway.

 "Who'd want to spoil it for themselves?" It's the kind of thing a well-meaning churchgoing woman says over her second glass of wine to her assembled party. It's what you say about an existential nightmare that, thanks to H.R. 4831, has been made illegal to possess or operate within the bounds of these United States. When the Death Machines came, so too did the legislation. Too many questions, if you ask me. No, wait, strike that. Too many answers. 
 
 "Felix." I heard my name echoing down the hallway. "Got a live one. Scarlett's doing the debriefing in B." 
 
 "Right on, Rusik." I made a little exasperated sound getting out of my chair. Field work always worried me a little. More than it should, at least, considering. My shoulder ached as I threw on my windbreaker, reminding me why I was downgraded to COD department in the first place. The F.B.I. has a distinct and unique interpretation of "active leave", specifically for those shotvon the job. Forgive me if I am rambling, it's... it's been a slow day. Week, even. I make my way down the hallway, listening to Scarlett's booming voice as it echoes towards me. 

"... known as the "Shrodinger Cult"." Here it comes. The repeat. Bring it home Scarlett. "Shrodinger." And then a pause. "Cult. Operating out of rural New Jersey..." 

Scarlett. Orator of our time. The Scarlett Harlot, I call her to no one in particular. She's early thirties out of somewhere near Miami, moved up the ranks quickly thanks to her dominating personality. She's surprisingly commanding in that frame of hers - can't be more than 5'6", One-twenty sopping wet and, from what I hear, enough martial arts training to... kick my ass, at least. She'll be a great senator one day. 

"Felix, you're on this one." Shit, I wasn't listening. 

"Can we run it again, Chief? I want to be completely clear, here." She rolls her eyes and everyone stays silent. I begin to wonder what Scarlett is doing this saturday. 

"..For the second time, Felix. We have a fresh COD report, this time coming from the East Coast. There is a group known as the "Shrodinger Cult." No repeats for daydreamers, apparently. "They have a compound in rural New Jersey, where roughly fifty people live. They are suspects in several local robberies, mostly electric stores and machine shops, but local P.d. has very little hard evidence." She looked at me with those dark brown eyes. Focus, Eric. Focus. "Caught up, Felix?" 

"Yes M'am." Cause-of-death reports were rarer and rarer since H.R. 4831. Before they were made illegal on a federal level, they were looked down upon by most state and local governments. For a little while, they could be found everywhere. Malls, banks, you name it. You put your finger in the hole, a little pin pricks, and, like oh-so-many after-dinner cookies, you get a fortune. Unlike the cookies, however, this fortune always comes true. The backlash was not unexpected. TIME magazine had a full page cover declaring the Death Machines "AMERICA'S EXISTENTIAL CRISIS". People started demanding to know the death slip of the President - who, to this day, claims to have never been tested. People became obssessed, and soon the practical uses of the machines turned everything to hell. The Cigarrette companies absolutely loved the things, as an aside. After all, once you know you're going to die from a plane crash, you know you're not going to be killed by lung cancer. The idiots are geniuses, I tell you. 

The shit hit the fan after a leaks-gathering website got a hold of a military referendum for the practical application of Death Machines and published it. The report detailed a plan to make Death Machine testing mandatory for the military, and deployment schedules shifting around the results. So, if ten people all get  "Mortar" as their death slip, you've just created a squad that is doomed to die by mortar. What's more, you just put them on the front line. People just lost their fucking minds after that hit. Riots, panic. Doomsday cults. 

Which brings us to the Schrodingers. 

"The 'dingers are not your typical commune. No weird sex stuff, as far as I can tell. Their leader, Jacob Garfield, was head of the Computer Science department at Arizona Tech when he was unanimously stripped of his faculty position. Something to do with a grant to study the Cause of Death machines. He grabbed some Grad Students and hoofed it to New Jersey, where he's been growing in popularity since." It felt good to lead a room, to know what I am talking about. "As Scarlett..." So beautifully, "...mentioned, they are under investigation for stealing technology. These people worship it. They thing the existence of things like the death machines disprove free will, and they are apparently willing to prove it." It sounded like mush coming out of my mouth. I could see the room begin to lose interest. "Dangerous nerds with an idealist leader. We're going to have a word with them as soon as we can. Jackson, Mallory, you do interviews with the robbed stores, see if what they stole could be used to approximate the Machines. I'm going to ask around, maybe find their greater compound."


