When the powers came, the world didn't change as much as you'd expect. Some 5% of earths population got them after 12/21, and most of them use it as a way to avoid traffic on I-90. There were some early adopters that tried the whole pants-on-the-outside routine right off the bat, but none of them had either the survivability or the mental wherewithall to endure a life of super heroics. The first ubermench died after landing in Boston harbor and, in being too tired to swim, drowned less than a mile from shore. They fell off the map pretty quickly after that. Turns out the problems were all either too big or too small. 

When my bloodwork came back, it told me I had a power in the "5t" division, which was relegated to the powers of the mind, specifically where relating to truth. Oracles, soothsayers, courtiers. Me. I did what any sensible person would do: I sat in a chair and waited for people to come by, just outside of Quincy Square. 

"M-positive, 5t, free screenings" my sign said. I sat three feet away from a chair facing me. Three hours passed before a wacky suburbanite mom from upstate new york sat down, her kids watching from afar, her husband rolling his eyes, her daughter jumping and laughing about the acquarium. I smiled at the little girl, whose pink dress with a high collar just barely covered her gills.  

"So, tell me, what do you do?" The mom asked, her face turned away from me in a cracking smile, looking at me out of the corner of my eye. I responded honestly. I didn't know. I told her that it might not be interesting, but if we spoke for a little while, I could come up with something. She slapped my knee and said she had all day. Her husband rolled his eyes. 

So she told me her name - Tiffany - and her profession - Real estate - and I began to get woozy, and her words blended together and my stomach tightened and I learned more and more and now she wasn't saying anything to me but I could still hear her and my mouth tasted a word and

"Beth loved you." 

Tiffany stopped dead in her tracks. Her face white, she stood slowly and took her family away. The daughter turned back to wave, but Tiffany the surbanite rushed her away quickly. I was nauseaus and gratified. I could tell the truth. 

I changed my sign. "OBSCENE TRUTHS: NOT WHAT YOU WANT, WHAT YOU NEED. $5 USD." I quickly purchased a confessional from one of the destroyed churches and set up a paypal account. People came more if they could pay with their phones, and never see my face. 

Business was booming. 

"You deserved more." 

"She cheated on you." 

"You didn't misplace your wallet." 

"It's counterfeit." 

"No."

"You are a monster." 

"March 2nd, 2018."

One by one, they came in, and my power would give them the truths they need (not the ones they want) in under five minutes, average. It seemed I only had one truth per person - multiple visits always gave me the same truth. By my third week, I had vomited eighteen times in one day and had lines around the block. 

One day, seventeen minutes to close, A young woman came in. She smelled of vanilla, and through the confessional screen, I smiled. 

Sheepishly, she said, "Hello?" and my spine chilled. I recognized that voice. Why was she here? Back in town already? I coughed back a reply, trying my best to mask my voice. "Is this... where I come to get a truth?" 

I told her the deal - you talk to me, and I give you an answer to the question you need answered - and she began talking to me about everything. I listened intently, so happy to see her again after those years. I wonder if she ever thought of me. Did she regret that nothing ever came of us? Did she regret moving away and leaving me here to rot? Did her parents survive? How often did she think of me? Did she know? 

An hour passed, us chatting and talking about her family, and then another, and as the third hour came back we both realized she had never paid me, but I told her to keep her money. After so long, I never conjured a truth. Was I not trying? I never tried before. Maybe it doesn't work if I already know the person? Couldn't be sure. I didn't want to make something up on the spot, and I couldn't lie. I didn't know what to say to her.

"Well, you've listened to me talk about my problems for the last... three hours." She smiled, I could hear it. "Know my truth, yet?" 

I was stunned to silence. Almost. 

"You sound..." I dropped my fake voice without noticing it. "you sound like you're doing fine." She went first, and I waited for her to be gone before I left and tried to catch the last train back to my apartment. 

Finally opening the door to my bedroom, I was almost blinded by the flashing redness of a my phone's notification LED. I ran to grab it, wondering what it would tell me next.  